>> Mike North: We have a question online.
>> Speaker 2: Are mono repos and
micro front end architecture
interrelated at all?
>> Mike North: They are, often you'll
have micro front-ends arranged into
packages within a monorepo, right?
So micro front-ends is the concept
of instead of having a UI monolith,
you're sort of composing
together subparts of it.
And that's like a great example of where
you might want to model each of those as
a distinct package.
So there's strong encapsulation or
encapsulation that you have a high
degree of control over as it relates to
the contract between two micro front ends
or their contract with some core part
of the UI that sort of cuts horizontally
across all the micro front ends.
>> Speaker 2: Are monorepos a good
setup for creating a library?
For instance, if I have one
package with multiple projects and
I want to serve that as a library.
>> Mike North: If you have one package
with multiple projects, I would flip that
around and say it's probably if you
have one project with multiple packages.
So say you had a project where it was
consumable as a library, but also you
have a CLI for people that just want to
use it, use some part of it in a terminal.
Say it's for image resizing or something.
Well, you could say, look, there's
this core thing that's the library.
And then on top of that I'm
going to build the cli, but
I want to develop and
evolve these things together.
Like when I add a new feature or I make
some change to the way I represent data,
I want this to all be something where
I can have a single git commit and
kind of keep these synchronized over time.
And in that case, I'd break them up
into two packages within one project.
>> Speaker 2: Your opinions
on turborebo versus nx?
>> Mike North: My opinion
is they both meet.
Like, I like them both, and
they work a similar way.
This concept of having.
Well, like, there are two concepts there,
which we'll get to more deeply
when we start talking about nx.
One is the idea of cached build steps.
You can think of this as almost
like a pure function where
you can state my linting task.
It's the result of running that task
both in terms of did it pass or
did it not pass?
And what was the output to the cli?
What was the output in the terminal or
what was the file it generated?
If you have your linter
piping out to a file,
if that's the output and the input's
the source code and you can state,
yeah, this is like for a given input
the output will always be the same.
Well, then you can cache
that instead of actually
running your linter every single time.
You could say, you know, we haven't really
touched anything since we ran this,
including the version of
eslint that's being run.
So I'm just gonna spit
the same output out.
I'm gonna skip the step where we
run exactly the same thing and
I'm just gonna give you the output.
So that's this concept of like
a cached task, if you will.
And then what turbo repo or
TurboBuild and NX both do is they will
then have a cloud service where
you can push these cached results.
And what that means is even across your
development team, you get the idea of sort
of getting a fingerprint on the inputs and
preserving the same output and you can
sort of benefit from, from that across
your team or in CI across multiple jobs.
So it's sort of like that second step
is more about more than just you
sharing the same cache and
getting the benefits of the same cache.
And we're gonna do that.
We're going to,
as we dive into NX and LERNA as well,
we're going to see the benefits of that.
It's an incredible speed up for
those tasks where
the same inputs will always
yield the same outputs.
And it's up to you to state that
that's the case for a given task.
>> Speaker 3: Given all of these benefits
of monorepos, we're kind of going through.
It almost sounds like you should
always choose a monorepo, but
obviously that's not the case.
What do you kind of look for
when you're trying to decide if a project
should be a monorepo versus poly repo?
Like, what are the indicators
you're kind of looking for there?
>> Mike North: Great question.
For me, the most significant
bit is really about what is
the interrelatedness of the packages
that would be within this project?
The project,
let me answer this in two ways.
If you're thinking about a project
on GitHub, let's take Babel for
example, for taking very modern
JavaScript and transpiling it so
that older runtimes can execute it well,
you can have a nice set of
Babel plugins in there,
you can have the Babel core package,
you can have the Babel cli and
there's a lot of entanglement.
There would be a lot of extra
work if those were each modeled
as a totally separate thing.
Now, at a company level,
where the commonality factor comes in,
the reason for grouping things together.
It's usually about having some
fairly sophisticated tooling and
conventions that are applied
that would be otherwise
very difficult in a poly
repo ecosystem to enforce.
So that's probably number one.
And then number two, if there's
a lot of pain that some community,
be it a company or
people working on an open source project,
if there's pain associated with
keeping everybody upgraded,
were you to go the poly repo path.
Often a monorepo is something to aim for.
But here are examples of things where
I would not necessarily reach for
a monorepo.
Like if you're building a little node
library that's sort of self contained and
it has, you know,
it has like a clear reason for existence,
there's really no convenient place
to sort of start dividing things up.
Or if you were dividing things up,
it would just be for
your own like internal purposes to
get like encapsulation boundaries.
Well, there are other ways to do that.
I think at that point you're going to
see that it takes a little bit to get
these set up.
Now once you are set up,
it's fairly easy to manage them with
some of the tools I'm going to show you.
But at that point it wouldn't
necessarily be worth it to me.
If you have a CLI tool you're building
that's for image manipulation or
something like that, maybe,
maybe it makes sense to just consider
that to be like a monolith tool and
not divided into sub packages.